Example - Custom post types (#18)
infinum/eightshift-docs: docs/libs/examples/libs-example-custom-post-type.md

---
id: libs-example-custom-post-type
title: Register Custom Post Type
---

> While you are working on your WordPress project it is possible that at one point you will need a Custom Post Type to enrich your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working on a WordPress project it is possible that, at one point, you will need to register a Custom Post Type.
```

> For that case we have prepared an easy way for you to register a new post type following these steps and with the following code example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case, we have prepared an easy way for you to register a new post type by following these steps with the following code example:
```

First we will setup our folder structure:

### Folder structure

```php

* src
  * class-main.php
  * custom-post-type
    * class-example.php

```

> PRO HINT: Files containing a class should be named class-{classname}.php and there should always be only one class per file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Files containing a class should be named `class-{classname}.php` and there should always be only one class per file.
```

I'd avoid a PRO word here. I think the PSR are using one class per file suggestion, and `class-{classname}.php` is a WordPress Coding Standard suggestion.

## Follow these steps:
* Create a new folder inside the `src` folder called `custom-post-type`. This is the place where you will hold all your classes for registering custom post types, Or put this in a place you think it would suit your project best.

> * Let's call our first custom post type `Projects`, create a file called the same as your custom post type, in this case `class-projects.php`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Let's call our first custom post type `Projects`. Create a file called the same as your custom post type, in this case, `class-projects.php`.
```

* Copy this example and update it to your needs.
* Register this new class in `class-main.php` inside `get_service_classes` method.
* In terminal run `composer dump-autoload`.

### Class-projects.php

```php

<?php
/**
 * File that holds class for "Projects" custom post type registration.
 *
 * @package Eightshift_Boilerplate\Custom_Post_Type
 */

namespace Eightshift_Boilerplate\Custom_Post_Type;

/**
 * File that holds base abstract class for custom post type registration.
 */
use Eightshift_Libs\Custom_Post_Type\Base_Post_Type;

/**
 * File containing label generator class.
 */
use Eightshift_Libs\Custom_Post_Type\Label_Generator;

/**
 * Class Projects.
 */
class Projects extends Base_Post_Type {

  /**
   * Post type slug constant.
   *
   * @var string
   */
  const POST_TYPE_SLUG = 'projects-type';

  /**

>    * Pretty slug for the custom post type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * URL slug for the custom post type.
```
